>> Kevin Powell: Now, one thing
you might have noticed in our site
is all of our spacing disappeared, cuz
we did a margin zero really early on for
our paragraphs or headings and
other things like that.
And it looks kinda weird that
everything's glued together.
And when we have spacing between type and
things like that,
it's generally called flow.
You have the CSS flow,
page flow includes that space normally.
So we need to reintroduce the flow, and
there's different ways
that we can do this.
If you're used to Tailwind,
you know the prose class.
The prose class,
I have an example of it here, I don't,
but I do mention it and
I have a link to it.
The prose class brings margin-top and
bottom back,
cuz their reset takes the margins away,
like we've done.
And their prose class takes anything
that's a descendant of that and
adds the margin-top and bottom back in
with some tweaks to what those are.
There's another thing,
which is the lobotomized owl,
which is by Heydon Pickering,
who coined that term.
And I have a link to the article
from way back when he coined it,
which is the * + * selector.
You can see here,
it's actually on my shirt right now,
that we have the * + * selector that's
right there, where it looks a bit weird.
There's other ways that we can write that,
but basically, it reintroduces.
By doing it like this, we can
reintroduce flow back into our document.
And if we go and take a look, I'm not
gonna use it properly at the beginning.
But I'm just gonna come here and
do .flow > * + *,
and I'll show you the alternatives, too.
I would suggest potentially leaving
a comment here cuz people do complain that
it's not very readable.
If they come across, it's not obvious
what it's doing, and I'm gonna say for
now, color is red.
Just so
we can see what this is actually doing.
And I'm gonna go,
where should we put this?
I'll put it in the heading, the hero.
So if we come all the way up to
the top and we find my hero,
we'll do it on this wrapper just
cuz I have three paragraphs here.
So in this wrapper,
if I add a flow, this paragraph and
the next one after it are getting a red
color on it, the first one isn't.
So what the * + * is,
it's using the direct sibling selector.
Or it's a preceding sibling selector, so
it's only selecting an element
if it has an element before it.
So this paragraph, does it have an element
before it that's a direct sibling?
Yes, it does.
Does this one?
No, it doesn't, cuz if we look
in the HTML, it's at the top.
It doesn't have a sibling that comes
before it, so it doesn't get selected.
The alternative to writing
it this way is saying
not(:first-child), and
you'd get the same result.
If I hit save, it's selecting all
of them other than the first child.
The only problem with doing it with the
not(:first-child) is this does bring in
extra specificity with it, which
the star selector has no specificity.
So here, we now have two class selectors.
If you wanna get rid of the specificity,
we do have where now.
So you could come in and say,
where:not(:first-child), and
then you've eliminated
the specificity of it.
And it's only a class selector again, but
it just feels really heavy-handed in my
opinion, and it's really not that much
more readable than just doing this.
I had a comment saying, selects
everything except the first direct child.
I think is good enough for most people.
Obviously, though,
instead of doing the color,
what we can do here is do
it a margin-top of var.
I'm goinna do it as a var(--flow-spacer),
something like that, and
then just have a 1em as a default.
And I'm choosing 1em as a default
on purpose rather than 1rem,
because for the flow of text,
here's this quick
example I put together so
we don't have to build it out.
This side here, they're both using
the * + * for these two columns.
The one on the left is using
the one on the right is using rem.
So the one on the left with the you'll
notice that the space here is bigger,
because the is based on
the font size of that element.
So it's creating more space right here,
and
then it's creating more space here
cuz this is bigger than those.
And it creates just a better
visual hierarchy for
the way typography is supposed to work.
Anybody who knows about topography,
it's all about the hierarchy, and
proximity to things is
the word I'm looking for.
And so we're trying to keep the proximity
of what this is related to closer to here,
and it just creates a more
visually appealing thing.
It's easier to skim and everything else.
Then when you have 1rem and
all the spacing ends up being the same.
This is for regular flow text, there
are times you want consistent spacing,
we'll look at that in a second.
But when you want regular flow,
it doesn't make sense,
it just makes a lot of sense to use.
And it's the reason we're using
margin-top instead of margin-bottom,
cuz some people prefer doing
the same thing on margin-bottom.
But I want a bigger margin
on top of the large text.
So if I hook into the fact that the large
text 1em is bigger than 1m on my smaller
text, using margin-top is
the easiest way to do that.
So flow, just like that,
gives us that type of thing.
So that means we can come into our
project now that we've added that there,
and we can add the flow wherever we want.
Now, I did say I like having
wrappers just be wrappers.
So this is another divisive thing,
well, it's not divisive, but
it depends on how you like to work.
But you might want to have
another div with a class of
flow cuz you'll need it there.
Cut that, paste it down here, and
have the wrapper and then the flow, or
you might just wanna put them together.
I've done it both ways, it just depends,
you want another div or
do you mind mixing the wrapper
plus the flow together?
It's completely up to you.
I am gonna add it to my hero too,
though, cuz right now,
the mushroom foraging is touching
the text that's underneath it.
So I can add a flow here.
Whoops, I don't wanna remove those.
I'm gonna add the flow right there just
to give us the space we need right there.
The advantage of the flow being here too,
this font size actually
needs to be bigger.
Potentially, we put the class there,
we have the utility for that now,
but we can come down to the next section.
And it's a little bit annoying, and this
is one of the reasons when you do a reset,
maybe you don't wanna
remove all your margins,
cuz then you do have to find a way
to bring spacing back into things.
So it is an argument for
not just nuking margins right off the top.
So here we have the wrapper,
so I can do another flow.
>> Kevin Powell: And
I want to close it right there, so
that adds the spacing between those,
I think.
The cards, I'll talk about in a second.
We'll come back to those in a minute,
but I'll leave those alone, and
we'll circle back.
The next section down here, these two,
we need some flow, so I can add my .flow.
While I'm on this one, though,
one thing I didn't do earlier, so
we did create those
utility classes before.
So I am gonna say this is also a text,
no, sorry, font-size.
I talked about them and
we didn't do a lot with them.
font-size, I think it would be the md or
even lg, I think,
which gives us that larger
font size that we had there.
And we want the text to be white,
so I could do text-high-contrast.
And this is where I have three utility
classes, basically on one element.
And I might say, do I really want
three utility classes there or
should it be a component?
Cuz we also wanna come
on the very top here and
probably do a text-center as well.
And then everything centers cuz
that area is always centered.
But this is where you will start seeing,
when you have these different
utilities that are in there and
you're going through your site,
how quickly you can start working.
Or these more generic selectors,
let's say, instead of utilities.
So then we can come down to this
next section that's two columns.
In this case,
I don't want it just by my wrapper,
cuz my wrapper then has the image.
And after that, it has this div that's
sitting here, creating the other column,
so that one can get the flow on it.
And I could also do my font-size,
I keep saying text,
font-size-lg on that one as well.
We could come down to this next section,
wrapper equal-columns.
I have this div that has the text in it.
So basically, anytime I have text,
I need a flow class around it.
And then if I do need to change
the font size, I can come in and
do that at the same time, so font-size-lg.
I think those are supposed
to be lg anyway.
There we go, and
those ones come through like that.
>> Kevin Powell: I might have
missed one along the way.
So it's one of those things that as
you're going through the project,
you might be like, I forgot a flow here,
you just add it in wherever you need it.
So just making sure, and you just go
through and visually check your site after
to see if there's things that are stuck
together that shouldn't be stuck together.
I'm doing a quick check now, and the one
area that I see where I have a problem is
inside my cards,
where everything is glued together.
We'll get to that in the next little bit,
just cuz those spacing we actually want
it to be consistent instead of different.
So for those cards,
what we wanna do is we have two choices.
You could use the flow and
then you could change what the
--flow-spacer is to make it 1rem instead.
I personally have the habit
of doing a grid-flow,
cuz it just distinguishes the two
between each other for me, grid-flow.
And the reason I use grid for this, you
could also use Flexbox, but with Flexbox,
you have to change the flex direction.
With grid, you don't.
And I do a display: grid and
a gap: var(--grid-flow-gap.
You get where this is going,
but 1rem instead of 1em.
Even though in this situation
because it's a gap, the 1em,
it wouldn't change
anything in any situation.
And this is the name, grid-flow, for me,
is because I know grid is going to be
consistent spacing, cuz I know I'm gonna
be relying on gap instead of using margin.
If you'd want consistent flow or,
I don't know,
a name that would imply that the spacing
is always the same instead of being
more general flow,
you can go with another name.
For that, that would sort of hammer
home that idea a little bit better.
But then on these cards that
we have here right now,
we will change it a little bit after, but
I just wanna show how this can be useful.
So I think I actually called those cards.
So for now, we can also give each
one of those cards the grid-flow.
And we could have done this a bit faster,
but
we'll do it the slow way by
scrolling to each one of them.
You can see this change it already made,
but if I make that bigger now and I go and
take a look at those cards,
we can see we get a bit of spacing
coming between them there.
And I just realized I
don't have any space here.
So I'm gonna fix that really fast while
we're at it, which would be that flow.
I'm gonna do it on here for now.
No, we shouldn't need that, the wrapper.
No, one second.
We have the flow is adding flow to here.
For this case,
>> Kevin Powell: I want an extra space,
we'll figure that one out.
>> Kevin Powell: Yeah, if we added
flow here, it would actually work.
You can see it's adding the space there.
Maybe I'll make that exception there just
so we don't have to get some extra divs,
layers, a wrapper flow
could be a bit annoying.
The reason that one's working is
because if we look directly in there,
it's adding the space between this and
then those three columns we have there.
So by having that extra flow and
then the nested flow.
It might be an argument in this case,
actually,
of not having this one here at all.
We could do it that way to
simplify things a little bit and
then just combining those two together.
Maybe in this case,
we'll cheat a little bit and
allow them to be combined just so
we don't have extra divs for nothing and
having to redo the extra classes for
nothing.